README for OSU_Jobs_Project

Written by Arthur Hilson
Date: 5/25/2015

This a ruby on rails web application that consumes the jobs that are listed at 
https://www.jobsatosu.com/all_jobs.atom and displays the results for the user 
to browse. It is designed using mobile first technology so the user can use 
this application on any range of devices from desktop computers to smart phones. 

This web application is currently deployed on Heroku at:
http://ahilsonosujob.herokuapp.com/

Application Features:

1) The user can view all of the current job listings found at 
https://www.jobsatosu.com by clicking the Search Jobs button.
 
2) The user can sort the results by job title or posting department by using 
the dropdown menu after clicking the Seach Jobs button. The default ordering 
is by the most recently updated job postings.

3) The user can filter the results by a specific job title or posting department 
to only see a subset of the total job listings by using the other two dropdown 
menus after clicking the Search Jobs button.

4) The user can create an account. After an account is created the user then has 
the option to bookmark jobs that interest them. These bookmarked jobs can be 
managed by clicking the Show Bookmarked Jobs button.

5) If the user has created an account then they also have the option to select 
job titles and posting departments that they would like to receive email 
notifications from if a new job is posted that fit their parameters. This 
feature is managed by clicking the Manage Email Notifications button. The user 
has the option to create as many different email notification parameters as they 
would like. Everyday at midnight this application will check if any new jobs 
have been posted that fit these parameters and then sends out emails as needed.

Testing:

This web application uses the gems RSpec and Factory Girl to perform unit testing for its 
controllers and models. The tests can be found in the app/spec directory. To execute all of
the unit tests run the command "bundle exec rspec" from the root directory of the app. The
emailing functionality was tested by making a few accounts in the app using real email 
addresses. I then executed the function that checks for new jobs and then varified that 
I got the correct job postings in the emails of the different accounts. The gems better_errors
and binding_of_caller were used to provide better error reports during development.

Design:

Controllers:

1) jobs_controller : Handles showing the jobs to the user.

2) bookmarks_controller : Manages the users bookmarked jobs.

3) notifications_controller : Manages the users emails notifications.

4) application_controller : Has two methods, one that returns the current
users user_id and the second method consumes the jobs that are listed at
https://www.jobsatosu.com/all_jobs.atom and returns a hash of these jobs.

Models:

1) Job : Handles the sorting of the jobs by title, department, or time updated

2) Bookmark : Manages the CRUD functionality of the users bookmarked jobs and 
the sorting of the bookmarks. The default ordering is the newest bookmarks 
are shown first.

3) Notification : Manages the CRUD functionality of the users emails notification 
parameters. This is where the send_jobs function is located that is responsable 
for sending the emails out to the users.

4) User : Manages the user authentication and accounts through the gem Devise.
  
The use cases that where provided were used to develop the functionality of the 
application. UML diagrams were used to design the database structure.

References:

The header image was barrowed from https://www.jobsatosu.com/
The images used in the slider on the home page were barrowed from
https://www.google.com/search?q=ohio+state&client=ubuntu&hs=R0J&channel=fs&source=lnms&tbm=isch&sa=X&ei=LMpfVaW3IcLsgwTzlIGQDQ&ved=0CAgQ_AUoAg&biw=927&bih=957#channel=fs&tbm=isch&q=ohio+state+campus&revid=1875554182








